
This is the PLT software package directory. 

The standard location for this directory is:
  /usr/local/lib/plt

After unpacking this distribution, run the `install' script
in the plt directory (while the plt directory is the current
directory).

Executables
-----------

The main executables are:

  plt/bin/drscheme -- PLT's main Scheme development environment
  plt/bin/mred -- a Scheme GUI engine
  plt/bin/mzscheme -- a text-based Scheme interpreter
  plt/bin/mzc -- the MzScheme compiler

DrScheme relies on MrEd, and mzc (the MzScheme compiler) relies on
MzScheme. You may not have some of these packages depending on which
distribution you downloaded.

The files in plt/bin are shell scripts. The actual executable binaries
for mred and mzscheme are in .bin/ in a platform-dependent
subdirectory. (If you have downloaded the source code distribution,
the binaries will be absent and must be compiled.) The sh scripts pick
an appropiate binary based on `uname`, so a single plt directory can
be used in a multi-platform environment. (This causes problems for
writing MzScheme scripts. See notes/mzscheme/SCRIPTS for a clever
trick.)

Compiling
---------

If you downloaded the source code distribution, you must compile
MzScheme and MrEd before using the PLT software, including
DrScheme. To compile both MzScheme and MrEd (both are needed for
DrScheme), see `README' in plt/src/mred. To compile MzScheme only, see
plt/src/mzscheme.

If there is no plt/src/mzscheme or plt/src/mred directory, you did not
download the source code distribution and you are ready to run.

Documentation
-------------

Some documentation may be included in plt/collects/doc, but some of
the PLT documentation must be downloaded separately from the
executables.

HTML documentation for PLT software should be installed into
plt/collects/doc. For example, the DrScheme documenation should be in
plt/collects/doc/drscheme, with button icons in
plt/collects/doc/icons.

DrScheme and MrEd will automatically add documentation installed in
plt/collects/doc to the "Help" menu.

More Information
----------------

For more information, see
  http://www.cs.rice.edu/CS/PLT/packages/
