The object of _Paint By Numbers_ is to discover which cells should be
colored blue and which should be colored white. Initially, all squares are
grey, indicating that the correct colors are not known. The lists of
numbers to the left and above the grid are your clues to the correct color
of each square. Each list of numbers specifies the pattern of blue squares
in the row beside it or the column below it. Each number indicates the
length of a group of blue squares. For example, if the list of numbers
beside the first row is "2 3" then you know that there is a contiguous
block of two blue squares followed by a contiguous block of three blue
squares with at least one white square between them. The label does not
tell you where the blue squares are, only their shapes. The trick is to
gather as much information as you can about each row, and then use that
information to determine more about each column. Eventually you should be
able to fill in the entire puzzle.

Click on a square to toggle it between blue and gray. Hold down a modifier
key (shift, command, meta, or alt depending on the platform) to toggle a
square between white and gray. The third button under unix and the right
button under windows also toggles between white and gray.

For some puzzles, hints are available. Choose the Nongram|Show Mistakes
menu item to receive the hints. This will turn all incorrectly colored
squares red.

Thanks to Shoichiro Hattori for his puzzles! Visit him on the web at: 

  http://www.ask.ne.jp/~hattori/puzzle/menu.html

Thanks also to many of the contributors to the Kajitani web site for
permission to re-distribute their puzzles. Visit them online at:

  http://www02.so-net.ne.jp/~kajitani/index.html

The specific contributers who have permitted their puzzles to be
redistributed are:

 snordmey@dayton.net
 jtraub@dragoncat.net
 e0gb258s@mail.erin.utoronto.ca
 mattingly@bigfoot.com
 jennifer.forman@umb.edu
 karen.hoover@bigfoot.com
 sssstree@ix.netcom.com
 we_bakers_3@earthlink.net
 bbart@cs.sfu.ca
 jonesjk@thegrid.net
 rrichard@lexitech.ca
 helena.montauban@auroraenergy.com.au
 barblane@ionsys.com
 m5rammy@maale5.com
 nmbauer@sprynet.com
 ncfrench@aol.com
 km29@drexel.edu
 jjl@stanford.edu
 disneyfan13@hotmail.com
 adjusting@yahoo.com
 richard@condor-post.com
 lady_tabitha@yahoo.com
 vaa@psulias.psu.edu
 kimbhall@yahoo.com
 kcottam@cusa.com
 karganov@hotmail.com
 jdmaynard@excite.com
 mnemoy@gameworks.com
 arrelless@jayco.net
 azisi@skiathos.physics.auth.gr
 whoaleo@hotmail.com
 tucker1999@earthlink.net
 bergles@yahoo.com
 elisabeth.springfelter@lanab.amv.se
 ewhaynes@mit.edu
 mjcarroll@ccnmail.com
 dahu@netcourrier.com
 joy@dcs.gla.ac.uk
 piobst@wam.umd.edu
 dani681@aol.com
 Talzhemir <pixel@realtime.net>
 hkittredge@hotmail.com
 allraft@sccoast.net
 karlvonl@geocities.com
 ailsa@worldonline.nl
 Carey Willis <N8NRG@hotmail.com>
 citragreen@hotmail.com
 dhalayko@cgocable.net
 jontive1@elp.rr.com
 hublan@rocketmail.com
 barbridgway@compuserve.com
 mijoy@mailcity.com
 joostdh@sci.kun.nl
 gossamer_kwaj@hotmail.com
 williamson@proaxis.com
 vacko_6@hotmail.com
