.\" dummy line
.TH DRSCHEME JR 1 "August 2000"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
drscheme-jr \- The Rice PLT Scheme programming shell
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B drscheme-jr
[
.I Xflag ...
]
[
.I file ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I DrScheme Jr 
is the Rice University PLT Scheme
programming shell.  It is the text-only version of the
.I DrScheme
programming environment.  
.PP
.I DrScheme Jr
treats its command line arguments as filenames and loads them after
starting up.
.SH OPTIONS

.pp
For further information on
.I DrScheme Jr,
(including command-line switches) please consult help-desk
and other information available on the web at:
.PP
.ce 1
http://www.cs.rice.edu/CS/PLT/packages/drschemejr/
.SH FILES
.I DrScheme Jr
looks for its libraries using the environment variables
PLTHOME and PLTCOLLECTS.  If this variable is not defined,
the installation directory is assumed (usually
"/usr/local/lib/plt/").  See the documentation for details.
.PP
Please consult your local administrator to determine whether
the on-line documentation has been installed locally.
.SH BUGS
Submit bug reports via
.ce 1
help-desk
.ce 1
http://www.cs.rice.edu/CS/PLT/Bugs/ (discouraged)
or by e-mail to
.ce 1
plt-bugs@cs.rice.edu (discouraged)
.SH AUTHOR
.I DrScheme Jr
was implemented by Robby Findler (robby@cs.rice.edu),
Shriram Krishnamurthi (shriram@cs.rice.edu), Cormac Flanagan 
(cormac@cs.rice.edu), Matthew Flatt (mflatt@cs.rice.edu),
and Paul Steckler (steck@cs.rice.edu).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR drscheme(1),
.BR mred(1),
.BR mzscheme(1)
.BR help-desk(1)
